Add cert-manager documentation (#1317)
minio/docs: source/operations/cert-manager/cert-manager-tenants.rst

2) Create the ``Issuer``
------------------------

The ``Issuer`` issues the certificates within the tenant namespace.

1. Generate a resource definition for an ``Issuer``.

   Create a file called ``tenant-1-ca-issuer.yaml`` with the following contents:

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :class: copyable

      # tenant-1-ca-issuer.yaml
      apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
      kind: Issuer
      metadata:
        name: tenant-1-ca-issuer
        namespace: tenant-1
      spec:
        ca:
          secretName: tenant-1-ca-tls

2. Apply the ``Issuer`` resource definition to the cluster.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl apply -f tenant-1-ca-issuer.yaml

3) Create a certificate for the tenant
--------------------------------------

Request that cert-manager issue a new TLS server certificate for MinIO.
The certificate must be valid for the following DNS domains:

- ``minio.<namespace>``
- ``minio.<namespace>.svc``
- ``minio.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>``
- ``*.<tenant-name>-hl.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>``
- ``*.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>``
- ``*.<tenant-name>.minio.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>'``

.. important::

>    Replace the filler strings with values for your tenant: 

Reviewer: Do we have a usual term for nonspecific placeholder text? 

Or perhaps something like "Replace the placeholder values as described below"

Author: Trying an alternative. I think "placeholder text" is probably the clearest expression.

   - ``<cluster domain>`` is the internal root DNS domain assigned in your Kubernetes cluster. 
     Typically, this is ``cluster.local``, but confirm the value by checking your coredns configuration for the correct value for your Kubernetes cluster. 
      
     For example:

     .. code-block:: shell
        :class: copyable

        kubectl get configmap coredns -n kube-system -o jsonpath="{.data}"

     Different Kubernetes providers manage the root domain differently.
     Check with your Kubernetes provider for more information.

   - ``tenant-name`` is the name provided to your tenant in the ``metadata.name`` of the Tenant YAML. 
     For this example it is ``myminio``.

>    - ``namespace`` is the namespace where the tenant is created, the ``metadata.namespace`` notes that in the Tenant YAML. 

Reviewer: I'm not entirely following what this means. Do you replace `namespace` with the value you find in your Tenant YAML for `metadata.namespace`? Or does what you put here populate that value in the YAML?

Author: Reworked.

1) Create the tenant namespace CA Issuer
----------------------------------------

Before deploying a new tenant, create a Certificate Authority and Issuer for the tenant's namespace.

1. If necessary, create the tenant's namespace.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl create ns tenant-1

   This much match the value of the ``metadata.namespace`` field in the tenant's YAML.

2. Request a Certificate for a new Certificate Authority with ``spec.isCA`` set to ``true``.

   Create a file called ``tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml`` with the following contents:

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :class: copyable
      :emphasize-lines: 7,8

      # tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml
      apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
      kind: Certificate
      metadata:
        name: tenant-1-ca-certificate
        namespace: tenant-1
      spec:
        isCA: true
        commonName: tenant-1-ca
        secretName: tenant-1-ca-tls
        duration: 70128h # 8y
        privateKey:
          algorithm: ECDSA
          size: 256
        issuerRef:
          name: selfsigned-root
          kind: ClusterIssuer
          group: cert-manager.io

> 

Reviewer 2: Same comment:

This must match the name of the ClusterIssuer created in the previous guide right?

We should state that after the YAML, along with a sentence to the effect of 'If you specified a different ClusterIssuer name *or* are using a different Issuer from the guide, modify the `issuerRef` to match your environment.'

3. Apply the file to the cluster.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl apply -f tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml

2) Create the ``Issuer``
------------------------

The ``Issuer`` issues the certificates within the tenant namespace.

1. Generate a resource definition for an ``Issuer``.

   Create a file called ``tenant-1-ca-issuer.yaml`` with the following contents:

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :class: copyable

      # tenant-1-ca-issuer.yaml
      apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
      kind: Issuer
      metadata:
        name: tenant-1-ca-issuer
        namespace: tenant-1
      spec:
        ca:
          secretName: tenant-1-ca-tls

> 2. Apply the ``Issuer`` resource definition to the cluster.

Reviewer 2: :thinking: do we need 'to the cluster' here? That should be inherent to Kubernetes. Nitpicking a bit.

Author: I'm ambivalent on it, but removed throughout.

- ``*.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>``
- ``*.<tenant-name>.minio.<namespace>.svc.<cluster domain>'``

.. important::

   Replace the the placeholder text (marked with the ``<`` and ``>`` characters) with values for your tenant: 

   - ``<cluster domain>`` is the internal root DNS domain assigned in your Kubernetes cluster. 
     Typically, this is ``cluster.local``, but confirm the value by checking your CoreDNS configuration for the correct value for your Kubernetes cluster. 
      
     For example:

     .. code-block:: shell
        :class: copyable

        kubectl get configmap coredns -n kube-system -o jsonpath="{.data}"

     Different Kubernetes providers manage the root domain differently.
     Check with your Kubernetes provider for more information.

   - ``tenant-name`` is the name provided to your tenant in the ``metadata.name`` of the Tenant YAML. 
     For this example it is ``myminio``.

   - ``namespace`` is the value created earlier where the tenant will be installed.
     In the tenant YAML, it is defined in the the ``metadata.namespace`` field. 
     For this example it is ``tenant-1``.

1. Request a ``Certificate`` for the domains mentioned above

>    Create a file called ``tenant-1-minio-certificate.yaml`` with the following contents: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Create a file called ``tenant-1-minio-certificate.yaml``.
   The contents of the file should resemble the following, modified to reflect your cluster and tenant configurations 
```

Author: Yeah, I like that.

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :class: copyable

      # tenant-1-minio-certificate.yaml
      apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
      kind: Certificate
      metadata:
        name: tenant-certmanager-cert
        namespace: tenant-1
      spec:
        dnsNames:
          - "minio.tenant-1"
          - "minio.tenant-1.svc"
          - 'minio.tenant-1.svc.cluster.local'
          - '*.minio.tenant-1.svc.cluster.local'
          - '*.myminio-hl.tenant-1.svc.cluster.local'
          - '*.myminio.minio.tenant-1.svc.cluster.local'
        secretName: myminio-tls
        issuerRef:
          name: tenant-1-ca-issuer

   .. tip::

      For this example, the Tenant name is ``myminio``. 

>       We recommend naming the secret in the field ``spec.secretName`` as ``<tenant-name>-tls``, following the naming convention the MinIO Operator uses when creating certificates without cert-manager.

Reviewer 2: We might not need to say why we recommend this, just that 'we recommend <x> as the naming convention'

Author: Simplicity for the win!

2. Apply the certificate resource to the cluster.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl apply -f tenant-1-minio-certificate.yaml

> 

Reviewer 2: They can validate by checking `kubectl get secrets` right? We might include that step

```
kubectl describe secret/myminio-tls -n tenant-1-whatever-namespace
```

> 4) Configure the tenant to use the certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4) Deploy the tenant using cert-manager for TLS certificate management
```

Author: 👍

----------------------------------------------

> To use cert-manager, the tenant spec must:
> 
> - Disable AutoCert by setting the ``spec.requestAutoCert`` field to ``false``. 
> 
>   This instructs the MinIO Operator to not attempt to issue certificates and instead rely on cert-manager to provide them in a secret.
> - Reference the Secret containing the TLS certificate from the previous procedure in `spec.externalCertSecret`.
> 
> Modify the tenant YAML ``spec`` section to reflect the above requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deploying a Tenant, you must set the TLS configuration such that:

- The Tenant does not automatically generate its own certificates (``spec.requestAutoCert: false``) *and*

- The Tenant has a valid cert-manager reference (``spec.externalCertSecret``)

This directs the Operator to deploy the Tenant using the cert-manager certificates exclusively.

The following YAML ``spec`` provides a baseline configuration meeting these requirements:
```

Author: Thanks! Taken.

   
.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 6,9,11

   apiVersion: minio.min.io/v2
   kind: Tenant
   metadata:
     name: myminio
     namespace: tenant-1
   spec:
   ...
     ## Disable default tls certificates.
     requestAutoCert: false
     ## Use certificates generated by cert-manager.
     externalCertSecret:
       - name: myminio-tls
         type: cert-manager.io/v1
   ...

5) Trust the tenant's CA in MinIO Operator
------------------------------------------

> MinIO Operator can trust as many CA certificates as provided. 

Reviewer 2: This is slightly out of left-field in terms of relevance.

I think the key here is:

1) The Operator cannot trust the cert-manager issued CA by default (this seems weird if we are all using the same ClusterIssuer but whatever)

2) We must pass the Tenant CA to the Operator

3) This requires creating a secret in the `minio-operator` namespace that references the Tenant CA created in this procedure.

Author: Fair. Updated to reflect.

   Create a file called ``tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml`` with the following contents:

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :class: copyable
      :emphasize-lines: 7,8

      # tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml
      apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
      kind: Certificate
      metadata:
        name: tenant-1-ca-certificate
        namespace: tenant-1
      spec:
        isCA: true
        commonName: tenant-1-ca
        secretName: tenant-1-ca-tls
        duration: 70128h # 8y
        privateKey:
          algorithm: ECDSA
          size: 256
        issuerRef:
          name: selfsigned-root
          kind: ClusterIssuer
          group: cert-manager.io

   .. important::

      The ``spec.issueRef.name`` must match the name of the ``ClusterIssuer`` created when :ref:`setting up cert-manager <minio-cert-manager-create-cluster-issuer>`.
      If you specified a different ``ClusterIssuer`` name or are using a different ``Issuer`` from the guide, modify the ``issuerRef`` to match your environment.

3. Apply the resource:

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl apply -f tenant-1-ca-certificate.yaml

> 4) Create the ``Issuer``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2) Create the ``Issuer``
```

Create ``operator-ca-tls-tenant-1`` secret
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Copy the tenant's cert-manager generated CA public key (``ca.crt``) into the `minio-operator` namespace. 
This allows Operator to trust the cert-manager issued CA and all certificates derived from it.

1. Create a ``ca.crt`` file containing the CA:

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl get secrets -n tenant-1 tenant-1-ca-tls -o=jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 -d > ca.crt

2. Create the secret:

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      kubectl create secret generic operator-ca-tls-tenant-1 --from-file=ca.crt -n minio-operator

.. tip::

   In this example we chose a secret name of ``operator-ca-tls-tenant-1``. 
   We used the tenant namespace ``tenant-1`` as a suffix for easy identification of which namespace the CA comes from.
   Use the name of your tenant namespace for easier linking secrets to the related resources.

6) Deploy the tenant 
--------------------

With the Certificate Authority and ``Issuer`` in place for the tenant's namespace, you can now :ref:`deploy the object store tenant <minio-k8s-deploy-minio-tenant>`.

> Use the tenant YAML modified above to disable AutoCert and reference the secret you generated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the modified baseline tenant YAML to disable AutoCert and reference the secret you generated.
```
directional text ... (yeah, adjective stack instead but trying to get through ...)
